---
title: TODO: Life Through Debt-Tinted Glasses
---

###TODO: Amortization Plan
The goal of this essay is to explore the concept of debt.  Specifically I'd like to generalize the concept and apply it to areas of the world and our lives to which we don't normally apply it.  My decision to write this essay arose after a number of interesting (to me anyway) realizations about the abstract concept of debt.  I figure it makes sense to explain my viewpoint by walking down the path that I followed.  But lets start with some definitions first to make things easier later on...

###TODO: witty title
TODO: replace this with a narrative
TODO: maybe drop this section altogether

###Tech Debt as a Tool
This is where this journey began for me.  I have been dealing with the concept of tech debt for a while, but only recently realized how perfectly the term debt applies to the concept.  For those who are not familiar, tech debt is a term used in software engineering to describe code which is (in some way) not ideal.  Perhaps the code is a knot of logic (spaghetti code), doesn't have any unit tests, or was written long ago using a methodology which has fallen out of favor.  Whatever the reason, it is code which the engineers that are maintaining it wish was different in some way.

It is easy to look on tech debt with an eye of scorn.  A lot of tech debt is found in areas of code which are old and were written by others.  Some of the disdain is certainly well deserved.  If thedailywtf.com has taught us anything it is that some programmers are capable of writing some creatively heinous code.  But not all tech debt should be seen as an abhoration.

First, as people visiting the past from the present (looking at code written previously) we have no idea what was going on at the time the code was written.  Even if we were the ones that wrote it, we don't stand a chance of remembering all of the context that ultimately led to the keystrokes to produce that code.  Perhaps the office environment was really stressful at the time, maybe there was a problem with the heat or A/C that made concentrating really difficult, or perhaps the author was too stressed thinking about the mortgage debt he was preparing to take on to contemplate the tech debt he was creating.  :-)

Secondly, there may have been a very good reason to take on the tech debt.  This segways in to the first realization on the path to generalizing the concept of debt.
For all you know if the author of the tech debt in question hadn't taken on the debt that he had, the company wouldn't have even been around to hire you.  Maybe you owe the author of that tech debt an apology.

* save time in active development (time to market)
* save time early on (uncertain future)
* save money early on (developers)


###Ideas
* Debt involved in writing this story (time, energy, calories, etc.)
* Reading directions (time debt)
* * Learning in general, although learning has immediate value of enjoyment
* Life gives you time, which you are free to spend, but you don't know how much you have
* * Spend it on whatever you want, take on debt to make best use of time
